RFC 009 - Migrate to GitLab (#18)
thegooddocsproject/request-for-comment: RFC-009-migrate-to-gitlab.md

# Migrate Good Docs Project Git repositories to GitLab

## Proposed by

Alyssa Rock - https://thegooddocs.slack.com/team/U012KCMPP0V

Co-sponsored by:

- Bryan Klein
- Deanna Thompson

## Current status

See the status indicated on the pull request description.

## Proposal overview

The Good Docs Project should migrate its Git repositories from GitHub to GitLab.
Although the migration would involve some initial disruption to our community's workflow, the many advantages that GitLab offers would make the move worth it in the end.

## Motivation

> Migrating our project to GitLab would involve many significant advantages, as explained in the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating our project to GitLab would introduce many significant advantages to our review and project management workflow, as well as laying the foundation for future community uptake of The Good Docs Project. One key motivator that aligns strongly with our project is that GitLab is fully open source. GitHub, although free to use for open source, is a closed source project.

```
or something like that. You get the gist.

> ### Ease of use and improved review workflows

Reviewer: I'm going to make some suggestions to re-arrange this section because I think you buried the lead.
The feature parity plus benefits is the clincher. I think you should mention the "other members" last, because it's a supporting point but instantly alienated me, a non-user of GitLab.

Author: @flicstar , thanks so much! I've committed your suggestions!

> GitLab has [feature parity](https://about.gitlab.com/devops-tools/github-vs-gitlab/) with many of GitHub's features, but many members of our community prefer working in GitLab and find it significantly easier to use.
> 
> With that in mind, the primary reason for switching to GitLab is that it's much easier to do merge request (pull request) reviews of text documents in GitLab, which will improve and streamline the template review process.
> 
> For some context, last year we implemented our improved template contributing process.
> Since that time, various templateers have opened PRs for their templates and encouraged members of the community to review their templates in draft form.
> As Alyssa reviewed these templates, she found that it's quite difficult to review templates in GitHub.
> Often she needed to open multiple browser tabs and switch to various points of the document to do a template review.
> 
> By contrast, GitLab gives the ability to use a file explorer view and see changes across multiple files, which reduces the complexity of reviewing text-based documents.
> GitLab allows you to toggle between seeing all of the changed files vs. one file at a time makes the review process significantly easier.
> 
> Another nice GitLab review feature is the ability to turn a comment on a merge request into an issue if you like the suggestion, but won't immediately implement it.
> [GitLab flavored Markdown](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html) also has some additional features such as the ability to add a built-in table of contents, front matter, and graphs.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitLab has [feature parity](https://about.gitlab.com/devops-tools/github-vs-gitlab/) with many of GitHub's features but it's much easier to do merge request (pull request) reviews of text documents in GitLab, which will improve and streamline our template review process. 

It is currently quite difficult to review template PRs in GitHub. The reviewer often needs to look at and switch between various points of the document during a review. Scrolling is tiresome, and opening multiple browser tabs to view the same document, or to view multiple files in the same PR, is cumbersome.

By contrast, GitLab gives the ability to use a file explorer view and see changes across multiple files, which reduces the complexity of reviewing text-based documents.
GitLab allows you to toggle between seeing all of the changed files vs. one file at a time makes the review process significantly easier.

Another nice GitLab review feature is the ability to turn a comment on a merge request into an issue if you like the suggestion, but won't immediately implement it.
[GitLab flavored Markdown](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html) also has some additional features such as the ability to add a built-in table of contents, front matter, and graphs.

Various members of our community have been working in GitLab for some time, and find it significantly easier to use than GitHub when working with text documents.

```
Apologies for how I've suggested changes to such a big chunk. I should have done it piecemeal but I'm used to working in GDocs. 
Apologies also if I've changed the meaning or misinterpreted the problem statement. I'm not sure if the benefits directly answer the problem as stated. Anyway, hopefully you'll get the gist and re-look at that section and tweak it. I'm happy if you ignore my suggested changes. Just hoping to prompt another look at it with your eyes fresh.

And possibly consider adding a sentence that says something like: Our project works mostly with prose rather than code. We need a tool that supports an editorial workflow rather than one built for developers working with code. 🤷‍♀️

The only loss of data is that sometimes it shows the person who migrated the repository as the person who opened a issue or pull request, but it indicates in a comment the GitHub handle of the person who originally opened the issue or pull request.

Be aware that one disruption to our community is that repositories can't have any open pull requests at the time of the migration.
That means we would have to merge in or close any open pull requests and implement a pull request freeze during the migration.

### Additional benefits

In addition to these main benefits, several members of our project also have stronger professional network connections to the GitLab organization than we do to GitHub.
For example, Alyssa has a good working relationship with GitLab's lead tech writing manager and Bryan knows prominent members of their engineering team.
Down the road (i.e. 5 years or so), we could consider leveraging these connections to integrate our templates and tools into GitLab's offerings for new open source projects, which would significantly increase our project's visibility and ability to fulfill our project's overall mission.

> It's also worth noting that GitLab is an actual open source project.
> GitHub, although free to use for open source, is a closed source project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I think this is a key point and I would suggest moving it WAY up.
